content/v0.77.0.md, before:

+++
title = "0.77.0 Changes"
date = 2021-07-01
+++

Installation instructions:

- [Linux](/downloads/linux/) (or [Steam on Linux](/downloads/linux#steam))
- [Windows](/downloads/windows/)
- [macOS](/downloads/macos/)

## 1. Table of Contents

<!-- TOC -->
- [1. Table of Contents](#1-table-of-contents)
- [2. Significant Changes](#2-significant-changes)
- [3. Bugfixes](#3-bugfixes)
- [4. Known Issues](#4-known-issues)
- [5. Contributions](#5-contributions)
<!-- /TOC -->

## 2. Significant Changes

- [Migrated](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/issues/854) Staging from autotools to the Meson build system.
  - Those building from source, please see `BUILD.md` in the repository.
- [Added](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/1031) write-xor-execute page support to comply with the latest macOS and SELinux security policies.
  - Thanks to jmarsh and Jonathan Campbell for discussions on vogons.
- [Added](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/1059) variable expansion to the interactive DOS shell.
- Finished FluidSynth integration, which is now included in all release binaries.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/MIDI#fluidsynth) for how to use it.
  - Run `mixer /listmidi` in the DOS shell to see your available soundfonts.
  - Thanks to Christian Lestrade for [authoring](https://sourceforge.net/p/dosbox/patches/107/) this support in 2005, and all subsequent maintainers.
  - Thanks to Meson for [adding](https://github.com/mesonbuild/fluidsynth/tree/2.2.0) FluidSynth to the WrapDB.
- Finished MT-32 integration, which is now included in all release binaries.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/MIDI#mt32emu) for how to use it.
  - Run `mixer /listmidi` in the DOS shell to see the available MT-32 models and versions.
  - See the list of [*unmissable* MT-32 experiences](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?f=62&t=77567), courtesy vogons.org forum user Shreddoc and contributors.
  - Thanks to Canadacow for [authoring](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?p=15519#p15519) MT-32 emulation in 2003, KingGuppy and Mok for the follow-on work, and SergM who continues to maintain and improve the Munt project today.
  - Thanks to Meson for [adding](https://github.com/mesonbuild/mt32emu/tree/2.5.0) libmt32emu to the WrapDB.
  - Thanks to Microsoft for [adding](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/issues/16813) libmt32emu to Vcpkg.
- Added IBM PS/1 Audio device support.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/IBM-PS-1-Audio) for how to use it.
  - Thanks to JMK for [authoring](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?p=132826#p132826) PS/1 Audio emulation in 2008.
- Added Innovation SSI-2001 audio device support.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/MIDI#mt32emu) for how to use it.
  - Thanks to Vasyl for [authoring](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?p=93689#p93689) SSI-2001 emulation in 2006.
  - Thanks to Dag Lem for authoring, and Antti Lankila and Leandro Nini for improving the SID chip emulator.
- Replaced the default `Ctrl+F<keys>` hotkeys [on macOS](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/996#issuecomment-834960586) with `Cmd+F<keys>` to reduce conflicts with the OS.
  - Thanks to Antti Peltola, Burrito78, and Kirk Klobe for guidance and testing.
- Added or Improved translations for French, Italian, Polish, Russian, and Spanish.
  - Thanks to Draky50110 (fr), Kappa971 (it), dreamer (po), IlyaIndigo (ru), and Peluchito (es).
- Added `splash_only` to the `startup_verbosity` settings. This shows the splash but skips the help banner.

## 3. Bugfixes

The following user-visible bugs were fixed:

- Will no longer lose focus on Raspberry Pi when launched fullcsreen in an Xorg
session [[PR#995](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/995)].
- Release builds now use `dosbox-staging.conf` as the primary conf file instead of
`dosbox-staging-git.conf` [[PR#932](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/932)].
- Windows release builds once again mount Opus CD-DA tracks, which was a regression in 0.76 [[PR#885](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/855)].
- AUTOTYPE now works with all games. Until now, a subset of games didn't respond to its keystrokes [[PR#942](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/942)].
- Shoulder triggers on some six-axis controllers, such as the PS4 and Logitech's F310 and F710 controllers, can now be mapped [[PR#944](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/944)].

## 4. Known Issues

A blank window may be shown when switching from fullscreen-mode to windowed-mode under the following conditions:
  - using an empty `windowresolution = ` or non-fixed setting value, such as `default` , and
  - using an opengl or surface `output = ` setting.

This can be avoided by:
    - using a fixed `windowresolution` setting, such as`windowresolution = 1280x960`, or
    - using `output = texturepp`, or
    - opening and closing the keyboard mapper (Ctrl+F1 or Cmd+F1 on macOS)

## 5. Contributions

The 0.77 release includes 912 commits plus 35 commits originating from the DOSBox project.

**DOSBox Staging Members**

The following members actively supported the project during the 0.77 timeframe:

- Antti Peltola (macOS testing and feedback)
- Brandon Munger (collaborator)
- Burrito78 (macOS testing and feedback)
- GranMinigun (testing and triage)
- kcgen (maintainer)
- Kirk Klobe (maintainer)
- Dennis Lühring (collaborator)
- nemo93 (Wiki maintainer)
- Patryk Obara (maintainer)
- Ruben Genoese (testing and triage)
- Wengier (collaborator)

**Direct Contributors**

The following authors, co-authors, wiki editors, translators, testers, and bug reporters directly contributed to the 0.77 release:

- Allofich
- Antti Peltola
- Brandon Munger
- Burrito78
- Dennis Lühring
- Didu
- Draky50110
- Dugan Chen
- eli-schwart
- Emmanuel Gil Peyrot
- Feignint
- Gilles
- GranMinigun
- hail-to-the-ryzen
- IlyaIndigo
- IPeluchito
- jmarsh
- Joshua Krämer
- Kappa971
- kcgen
- Ken Händel
- Kirk Klobe
- mdmallard
- nemo93
- Otto Urpelainen
- Patryk Obara
- Peluchito
- Ruben Genoese
- rhys073
- Sarah Whitman
- Toby Jennings
- warpdesign
- Wengier

**DOSBox Contributors**

The following DOSBox authors' SVN commits (r4393 through r4459) were merged during the 0.77 timeframe:

- jmarsh
- Peter Veenstra
- ripsaw8080
- Sjoerd van der Berg

**Indirect Contributors**

The following patch or external project authors' sources were merged during the 0.77 timeframe:

- Antti S. Lankila (reSIDfp maintainer)
- Dag Lem (Original reSID author)
- David Reid (dr_libs audio codecs author)
- Dean Beeler (Original MT-32 patch author)
- Jason Kim (PS/1 patch author)
- Jonathan Campbell (DOSBox-X maintainer)
- nukeykt (Nuked OPL emulator author)
- sergm (Munt and MT-32 patch maintainer)
- Vasyl Tsvirkunov (SS1-2001 patch author)
- Wengier (DOSBox-X maintainer)
- ykhwong (DOSBox Daum maintainer)

**Thank You**

We are extremely grateful for all contributions, including the invaluable improvements merged in from the DOSBox project.

The project maintains original authorship on all commits (including those from upstream, patches, and external projects) to ensure correct attribution is recorded in the version control system.

Commit message:

Drop known issues and add window-mode wording

content/v0.77.0.md, after:

+++
title = "0.77.0 Changes"
date = 2021-07-02
+++

Installation instructions:

- [Linux](/downloads/linux/) (or [Steam on Linux](/downloads/linux#steam))
- [Windows](/downloads/windows/)
- [macOS](/downloads/macos/)

## 1. Table of Contents

<!-- TOC -->
- [1. Table of Contents](#1-table-of-contents)
- [2. Significant Changes](#2-significant-changes)
- [3. Bugfixes](#3-bugfixes)
- [4. Contributions](#4-contributions)
<!-- /TOC -->

## 2. Significant Changes

- [Migrated](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/issues/854) Staging from autotools to the Meson build system.
  - Those building from source, please see `BUILD.md` in the repository.
- [Added](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/1031) write-xor-execute page support to comply with the latest macOS and SELinux security policies.
  - Thanks to jmarsh and Jonathan Campbell for discussions on vogons.
- [Added](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/1059) variable expansion to the interactive DOS shell.
- Finished FluidSynth integration, which is now included in all release binaries.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/MIDI#fluidsynth) for how to use it.
  - Run `mixer /listmidi` in the DOS shell to see your available soundfonts.
  - Thanks to Christian Lestrade for [authoring](https://sourceforge.net/p/dosbox/patches/107/) this support in 2005, and all subsequent maintainers.
  - Thanks to Meson for [adding](https://github.com/mesonbuild/fluidsynth/tree/2.2.0) FluidSynth to the WrapDB.
- Finished MT-32 integration, which is now included in all release binaries.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/MIDI#mt32emu) for how to use it.
  - Run `mixer /listmidi` in the DOS shell to see the available MT-32 models and versions.
  - See the list of [*unmissable* MT-32 experiences](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?f=62&t=77567), courtesy vogons.org forum user Shreddoc and contributors.
  - Thanks to Canadacow for [authoring](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?p=15519#p15519) MT-32 emulation in 2003, KingGuppy and Mok for the follow-on work, and SergM who continues to maintain and improve the Munt project today.
  - Thanks to Meson for [adding](https://github.com/mesonbuild/mt32emu/tree/2.5.0) libmt32emu to the WrapDB.
  - Thanks to Microsoft for [adding](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/issues/16813) libmt32emu to Vcpkg.
- Added IBM PS/1 Audio device support.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/IBM-PS-1-Audio) for how to use it.
  - Thanks to JMK for [authoring](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?p=132826#p132826) PS/1 Audio emulation in 2008.
- Added Innovation SSI-2001 audio device support.
  - See the [wiki notes](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/wiki/MIDI#mt32emu) for how to use it.
  - Thanks to Vasyl for [authoring](https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?p=93689#p93689) SSI-2001 emulation in 2006.
  - Thanks to Dag Lem for authoring, and Antti Lankila and Leandro Nini for improving the SID chip emulator.
- Replaced the default `Ctrl+F<keys>` hotkeys [on macOS](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/996#issuecomment-834960586) with `Cmd+F<keys>` to reduce conflicts with the OS.
  - Thanks to Antti Peltola, Burrito78, and Kirk Klobe for guidance and testing.
- Added or Improved translations for French, Italian, Polish, Russian, and Spanish.
  - Thanks to Draky50110 (fr), Kappa971 (it), dreamer (po), IlyaIndigo (ru), and Peluchito (es).
- Added `splash_only` to the `startup_verbosity` settings. This shows the splash but skips the help banner.
- Three relative window sizes: `small`, `medium`, or `large` are now understood by the `windowresolution` conf setting. These T-shirt sizes correspond to a window that's 25%, 50%, or 80% of your desktop's area, regardless of DPI or type of monitor (be it 720p, 1080p, or 4K).
- Window resizeable using corner-drag is now auto-enabled on all platforms when conditions permit.

## 3. Bugfixes

The following user-visible bugs were fixed:

- Will no longer lose focus on Raspberry Pi when launched fullcsreen in an Xorg
session [[PR#995](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/995)].
- Release builds now use `dosbox-staging.conf` as the primary conf file instead of
`dosbox-staging-git.conf` [[PR#932](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/932)].
- Windows release builds once again mount Opus CD-DA tracks, which was a regression in 0.76 [[PR#885](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/855)].
- AUTOTYPE now works with all games. Until now, a subset of games didn't respond to its keystrokes [[PR#942](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/942)].
- Shoulder triggers on some six-axis controllers, such as the PS4 and Logitech's F310 and F710 controllers, can now be mapped [[PR#944](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/944)].
- When toggling out of fullscreen mode, in some corner cases this resulted in a [blank window](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/issues/1094). This is now fixed [[PR#1096]].

## 4. Contributions

The 0.77 release includes 920 commits plus 35 commits originating from the DOSBox project.

**DOSBox Staging Members**

The following members actively supported the project during the 0.77 timeframe:

- Antti Peltola (macOS testing and feedback)
- Brandon Munger (collaborator)
- Burrito78 (macOS testing and feedback)
- GranMinigun (testing and triage)
- kcgen (maintainer)
- Kirk Klobe (maintainer)
- Dennis Lühring (collaborator)
- nemo93 (Wiki maintainer)
- Patryk Obara (maintainer)
- Ruben Genoese (testing and triage)
- Wengier (collaborator)

**Direct Contributors**

The following authors, co-authors, wiki editors, translators, testers, and bug reporters directly contributed to the 0.77 release:

- Allofich
- Antti Peltola
- Brandon Munger
- Burrito78
- Dennis Lühring
- Didu
- Draky50110
- Dugan Chen
- eli-schwart
- Emmanuel Gil Peyrot
- Feignint
- Gilles
- GranMinigun
- hail-to-the-ryzen
- IlyaIndigo
- IPeluchito
- jmarsh
- Joshua Krämer
- Kappa971
- kcgen
- Ken Händel
- Kirk Klobe
- mdmallard
- nemo93
- Otto Urpelainen
- Patryk Obara
- Peluchito
- Ruben Genoese
- rhys073
- Sarah Whitman
- Toby Jennings
- warpdesign
- Wengier

**DOSBox Contributors**

The following DOSBox authors' SVN commits (r4393 through r4459) were merged during the 0.77 timeframe:

- jmarsh
- Peter Veenstra
- ripsaw8080
- Sjoerd van der Berg

**Indirect Contributors**

The following patch or external project authors' sources were merged during the 0.77 timeframe:

- Antti S. Lankila (reSIDfp maintainer)
- Dag Lem (Original reSID author)
- David Reid (dr_libs audio codecs author)
- Dean Beeler (Original MT-32 patch author)
- Jason Kim (PS/1 patch author)
- Jonathan Campbell (DOSBox-X maintainer)
- nukeykt (Nuked OPL emulator author)
- sergm (Munt and MT-32 patch maintainer)
- Vasyl Tsvirkunov (SS1-2001 patch author)
- Wengier (DOSBox-X maintainer)
- ykhwong (DOSBox Daum maintainer)

**Thank You**

We are extremely grateful for all contributions, including the invaluable improvements merged in from the DOSBox project.

The project maintains original authorship on all commits (including those from upstream, patches, and external projects) to ensure correct attribution is recorded in the version control system.
