content/v0.76.0.md, before:

+++
title = "0.76.0 Release Notes"
date = 2020-11-11
+++

Installation instructions:

- [Linux](/downloads/linux/) (or [Steam on Linux](/downloads/linux#steam))
- [Windows](/downloads/windows/)
- [macOS](/downloads/macos/)


## Table of Contents

- [1. Summary](#1-summary)
- [2. New Features in Detail](#2-new-features-in-detail)
- [3. Bugfixes](#3-bugfixes)
- [4. Removed features](#4-removed-features)
- [5. Notes for Packagers](#5-notes-for-packagers)
- [6. Notes for Developers](#6-notes-for-developers)
- [7. Changes merged from upstream projects](#5-changes-merged-from-upstream-projects)
- [8. Contributors](#8-contributors)


## 1. Summary

TODO

## 2. New Features in Detail

### Improve --editconf option

TODO describe for non-technical users
```
commit 2ccae54e8444bc69bef200a1de38bf2ac9b81d27
Author: Patryk Obara <dreamer.tan@gmail.com>
Date:   Mon Apr 27 21:43:40 2020 +0200

    Improve --editconf option
    
    No user expects, that editor name needs to be manually supplied, and
    documentation is not clear about this either.
    
    Add GNU-style double-dash long parameter. Unfortunately, --opt=value
    style does not work with DOSBox non-standard parameter handling
    implementation.
    
    When user won't supply value for the parameter, following editors will
    be tried in order:
    
    - Program supplied via EDITOR environment variable
    - nano
    - vim
    - vi
    - notepad++.exe
    - notepad.exe
```


### Add LS command

TODO describe for non-technical users

```
commit a767145a2862e1552bc842a623df085470efb7b7
Author: Patryk Obara <dreamer.tan@gmail.com>
Date:   Fri May 22 19:31:28 2020 +0200

    Rudimentary ls implementation
    
    This is not supposed to be fully-featured ls command, as GNU ls, only a
    quick replacement for ls to make output more readable.
    
    Simply list all files, the same way DIR command does, except for
    formatting and skipping most switches. Store listing in a temporary
    vector (the same way DIR does), in case we'll want to implement sorting
    flags in the future.
    
    Use uppercase for directories and lowercase for files (same way Norton
    Commander differentiates between files and directories). Use blue colour
    for directories (the same way GNU ls does by default).
```


### Rapid DC-offset correction for the emulated PC speaker

Audio speakers work by pushing and pulling their diaphram at a rate
equal to the frequency of the audio being played.

Physical PC speakers can sometimes be left in a pushed-out or pulled-in
state through constant voltage, called DC-offset. DC offset in a real
PC speaker typically isn't a problem because it will remain silent in
an offset state.

However in DOSBox, the emulated PC speaker's audio samples are mixed
with those from the other emulated audio devices, such as the Sound
Blaster or Adlib. Eliminating DC-offset is important in because it
can:

- cause a pop if the next sample played has a value signficantly
different from the position of the DC-offset
- harm accurate sound reproduction of other sound devices by moving
half their samples either further away from the center line (becoming
louder) and the other half of the samples closer to the center line
(becoming quieter).

This new configuration option, `zero_offset` under the `[speaker]`
section, defaults to `'auto'`. It's enables for non-Windows systems
and  disables it on Windows as some Windows drivers appear to
attempt their own DC offset correction.

For visuals and more detail about this change, see:
- https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/480

For a discussion about Windows 10 performing DC-offset correction,
see:
- https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/625


### Dynamic recompilation for PowerPC and POWER8 (ppc64le)

TODO describe for non-technical users
TODO notify author of ppc64le patch!


### Audio envelope

TODO do we want this in notes for end-users?
f29cf5509bf829ae515120805c87a94473ae1261


### Add an option for skipping the splash screen

The splash screen can now be skipped through a new configuration option
called `startup_verbosity` in the `[dosbox]` section.

When set to `high`, the slash screen, blue help block, and any of
dosbox's initial console output will be shown.

When set to `medium`, the slash screen is skipped, but the blue help
block and any of dosbox's initial console output will be shown.

When set to `low`, the slash screen and blue help block will be skipped,
but any of dosbox's initial console output will be shown.

When set to `quiet`, all of the above will be skipped. The first output
will either be the command prompt or output from startup executables.

By default, the verbosity it set to `auto`, which is equal to `low` when
an executable or directory is passed on the commandline. Otherwise `auto`
is equal to `high` when DOSBox Staging is started without initial commands.

For a visual depiction of the options, see:
- https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/477


### Revise help messages for built-in commands

TODO describe for non-technical users

DIR 934485421ff4558c269606e4007a4e712adfc6ca
MOUNT ??
IMGMOUNT ??


### Revise help messages for built-in commands

TODO describe for non-technical users
GUS improvements
TODO Many commits and PRs


### Add pixel-perfect option when using OpenGL output

TODO describe for non-technical users
openglpp was supposed to be temporary, but we'll deprecate it in 0.77.0
TODO showcase pixel-perfect + resizable window

```
    Add openglpp option

    It's a temporary; should be supported as hidden, "deprecated"
    option; other forks provide it as an option, so we need to handle it
    (with a warning) but we shouldn't advertise it to the users.
```


### Add FluidSynth support

TODO describe for non-technical users
Important commits:
- fb5ad16a598839c930ef1d1cc1c3a5eb91f7939d


### Improve Softmodem support

TODO describe for non-technical users

several changes, e.g. 
Permit full-length hostnames in softmodem's command sequence
Let telnet-mode for softmodems be set via the conf-file
(and more)


### Add an option for setting monochrome palette colour

Mention, that it was backported to 0.75.2 already?


### Properly set modify time on written files

```
    Properly set modify time on written files

    Implements the missing part of DOS function 57h which sets modify time
    on a file. Previously, it was a stub.
    "copy" command now copies over file modify time as well.

    This should fix some install programs which check file modify dates.

    Code taken from this patch ripped from ykhwong's fork by gulikoza:
    https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?t=22600
```

### Raw mouse input

Mention, that it was backported to 0.75.2 already?

7bb013a021b0f376df169478bf81c1702bbafb6a


### Raw mouse input

Add dosbox --help -h command option.

Perhaps merge with mount/imgmount help?


### Case-insensitive paths handling

For mount, imgmount commands.

```
commit 1f03e0fec9c0e0a4b614c1990f5bec1612c4ebda
Author: Patryk Obara <dreamer.tan@gmail.com>
Date:   Sat Oct 17 19:59:04 2020 +0200

    Treat imgmount input path as case-insensitive
    
    Add more logs, so it should be easier for users to figure out what is
    happening when the imgmount command can't find the file.
    
    This change is required to make the .conf files cross-platform. It's
    usual practice for DOS packagers and distributors to write imgmount
    commands expecting case-insensitive filesystem and Windows path
    separators.
    
    DOSBox already does various path conversions to accomodate e.g. switching
    directory separators or even checks if path can't be loaded as
    case-insensitive when relative to virtual DOS drive.
```


### Revise default keyboard shortcuts

TODO describe for non-technical users

- **Alt-Enter** - Switch between fullscreen and window mode.
- **Alt-Pause** - Pause/Unpause emulator.
- **Ctrl-F1** - Start the keymapper.
- **Ctrl-F4** - Change between mounted floppy/CD images.
- **Ctrl-F5** - Save a screenshot.
- **Ctrl-F6** - Start/Stop recording sound output to a wave file.
- **Ctrl-F7** - Start/Stop recording video output to a zmbv file.
- **Ctrl-F9** - Shutdown emulator.
- **Ctrl-F10** - Capture/Release the mouse.
- **Ctrl-F11** - Slow down emulation.
- **Ctrl-F12** - Speed up emulation.
- **Ctrl-Alt-Home** - Restart emulator.
- hold **Alt-F12** - Fast forward.

Keymapper received tiny usabity improvements as well: it displays
keyboard shortcut (binding) for selected action.


## 3. Bugfixes

TODO only notable ones

- Prevent SDL2 crash on exit when using Wayland - 4ae5528a62bae5d16c449b22913ce21d02529129
- Fix sound in Prince of Persia / Tandy - 16873712e5e56bbe74557df4b65f8789d67fa296
- Prevent crash on SDL2 re-creating OpenGL window - e50fc3135ffe959f67537e1fdecee27010df2fb9
- Fix dir/p in non-standard text modes - 1fd67a335722b3a08487df9edfff59a9de5422d4
- Prevent injection of spurious newlines - c8b51ed9de04e8f1e63fe95f2814a79f62a78e93
- Fix mouse middlegame setting - 66e56da8df6fe64f8fa5d57afd6a7d2a224e84ca
- Fix a CD-DA roll-over bug when calculating PCM frames - 9b3e6cdde8f52c862cc8d57c8c811dc5bb935ed0
- Fix boot failure from Drive C - 06f2b2ba9e38796b28f6fc8dad6ea4184e2a7d9c
- Fix memory leak on modem phone book shutdown - b51327d75011df0f5119ee687ee39e209dd6b2a9
- Fix CLS command - d41a2129bb6334de4f32cb5b3ae2497bc324d984
- Fix regression in Clue: Master Detective - 8c0021ab2a0ae56a413e12816c0cb8a472f36cd0
- Update the default number of open DOS file handles to 255 - 476eae50022f65b87d7b12b04191e0ac1e22c149
- Set Precision Exception in FRNDINT, so that the Borland pascal pow implementation works correctly with non-integer arguments - 7892be26c72f812c0f58d17524516370fbde9bd6
- Bundle VS C++ Runtime File in Windows package - d7abe4d27c8aa73a9a54a1ce09555a2efd41e9b4
- Identify Pentium CPUID to indicate CPU without FDIV bug - 4764bb9eb1e36abbd36407655e1531854bf42a0c

- Multiple fixes for demoscene productions (look through commits by ripsaw)


## 4. Removed features

- `[gus]` `gusrate` - removed, not needed
- `oplrate` - removed - 5ff2386b32d50930dfdecc649261e44ecab0ea2b


## 5. Notes for Packagers

TODO: Notify about FluidSynth dependency, and any other packaging related
changes.


## 6. Notes for Developers

TODO describe briefly:

- Introduce CI gating based on MSVC, 32-bit and 64-bit builds
- Switch to using C++14
- Remove MSYS2 from gating


## 7. Changes merged from upstream projects

TODO

- Sync dr_mp3 v0.6.11 from upstream
- Sync dr_flac v0.12.13 from upstream
- Sync dr_wav v0.12.4 from upstream
- Sync xxhash 0.8.0 from upsteam
- Sync stb header v2.36 from upstream
- Sync stb_vorbis v1.19 from upstream


TODO New features in SVN (how to describe these?)

- Add F8 to toggle printable characters on/off - debugger only - 0d3d7851a4f0dc3aa0f440282d470e4bc2b8a938


## 8. Contributors

**Maintainers:**

**Contributors:**

Commit message:

Describe audio click and pop improvements

content/v0.76.0.md, after:

+++
title = "0.76.0 Release Notes"
date = 2020-11-11
+++

Installation instructions:

- [Linux](/downloads/linux/) (or [Steam on Linux](/downloads/linux#steam))
- [Windows](/downloads/windows/)
- [macOS](/downloads/macos/)


## Table of Contents

- [1. Summary](#1-summary)
- [2. New Features in Detail](#2-new-features-in-detail)
- [3. Bugfixes](#3-bugfixes)
- [4. Removed features](#4-removed-features)
- [5. Notes for Packagers](#5-notes-for-packagers)
- [6. Notes for Developers](#6-notes-for-developers)
- [7. Changes merged from upstream projects](#5-changes-merged-from-upstream-projects)
- [8. Contributors](#8-contributors)


## 1. Summary

TODO

## 2. New Features in Detail

### Improve --editconf option

TODO describe for non-technical users
```
commit 2ccae54e8444bc69bef200a1de38bf2ac9b81d27
Author: Patryk Obara <dreamer.tan@gmail.com>
Date:   Mon Apr 27 21:43:40 2020 +0200

    Improve --editconf option
    
    No user expects, that editor name needs to be manually supplied, and
    documentation is not clear about this either.
    
    Add GNU-style double-dash long parameter. Unfortunately, --opt=value
    style does not work with DOSBox non-standard parameter handling
    implementation.
    
    When user won't supply value for the parameter, following editors will
    be tried in order:
    
    - Program supplied via EDITOR environment variable
    - nano
    - vim
    - vi
    - notepad++.exe
    - notepad.exe
```


### Add LS command

TODO describe for non-technical users

```
commit a767145a2862e1552bc842a623df085470efb7b7
Author: Patryk Obara <dreamer.tan@gmail.com>
Date:   Fri May 22 19:31:28 2020 +0200

    Rudimentary ls implementation
    
    This is not supposed to be fully-featured ls command, as GNU ls, only a
    quick replacement for ls to make output more readable.
    
    Simply list all files, the same way DIR command does, except for
    formatting and skipping most switches. Store listing in a temporary
    vector (the same way DIR does), in case we'll want to implement sorting
    flags in the future.
    
    Use uppercase for directories and lowercase for files (same way Norton
    Commander differentiates between files and directories). Use blue colour
    for directories (the same way GNU ls does by default).
```


### Rapid DC-offset correction for the emulated PC speaker

Audio speakers work by pushing and pulling their diaphram at a rate
equal to the frequency of the audio being played.

Physical PC speakers can sometimes be left in a pushed-out or pulled-in
state through constant voltage, called DC-offset. DC offset in a real
PC speaker typically isn't a problem because it will remain silent in
an offset state.

However in DOSBox, the emulated PC speaker's audio samples are mixed
with those from the other emulated audio devices, such as the Sound
Blaster or Adlib. Eliminating DC-offset is important in because it
can:

- cause a pop if the next sample played has a value signficantly
different from the position of the DC-offset
- harm accurate sound reproduction of other sound devices by moving
half their samples either further away from the center line (becoming
louder) and the other half of the samples closer to the center line
(becoming quieter).

This new configuration option, `zero_offset` under the `[speaker]`
section, defaults to `'auto'`. It's enables for non-Windows systems
and  disables it on Windows as some Windows drivers appear to
attempt their own DC offset correction.

For visuals and more detail about this change, see:
- https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/480

For a discussion about Windows 10 performing DC-offset correction,
see:
- https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/625


### Dynamic recompilation for PowerPC and POWER8 (ppc64le)

TODO describe for non-technical users
TODO notify author of ppc64le patch!


### Initial Audio pop n' click improvements

Two changes have been made to reduce the occurence of audio pops and
clicks on game startup, as follows:

- Initial audio by all emulated devices is fed through an 15-ms
  envelope specifically timed to prevent unnatural electronic pops and
  clicks, yet fast enough to ensure that sharp-attack natural sounds
  (such as a symbol crash) are not affected.

- Some games test their interface to the Sound Blaster 16 using one or
  more small "junk" DMA transfers. Unfortunately on actual hardware,
  this results in startup clicks and pops, which can be jarring when
  using a headset.  These initial junk transfers are now suppressed.


### Add an option for skipping the splash screen

The splash screen can now be skipped through a new configuration option
called `startup_verbosity` in the `[dosbox]` section.

When set to `high`, the slash screen, blue help block, and any of
dosbox's initial console output will be shown.

When set to `medium`, the slash screen is skipped, but the blue help
block and any of dosbox's initial console output will be shown.

When set to `low`, the slash screen and blue help block will be skipped,
but any of dosbox's initial console output will be shown.

When set to `quiet`, all of the above will be skipped. The first output
will either be the command prompt or output from startup executables.

By default, the verbosity it set to `auto`, which is equal to `low` when
an executable or directory is passed on the commandline. Otherwise `auto`
is equal to `high` when DOSBox Staging is started without initial commands.

For a visual depiction of the options, see:
- https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/477


### Revise help messages for built-in commands

TODO describe for non-technical users

DIR 934485421ff4558c269606e4007a4e712adfc6ca
MOUNT ??
IMGMOUNT ??


### Revise help messages for built-in commands

TODO describe for non-technical users
GUS improvements
TODO Many commits and PRs


### Add pixel-perfect option when using OpenGL output

TODO describe for non-technical users
openglpp was supposed to be temporary, but we'll deprecate it in 0.77.0
TODO showcase pixel-perfect + resizable window

```
    Add openglpp option

    It's a temporary; should be supported as hidden, "deprecated"
    option; other forks provide it as an option, so we need to handle it
    (with a warning) but we shouldn't advertise it to the users.
```


### Add FluidSynth support

TODO describe for non-technical users
Important commits:
- fb5ad16a598839c930ef1d1cc1c3a5eb91f7939d


### Improve Softmodem support

TODO describe for non-technical users

several changes, e.g. 
Permit full-length hostnames in softmodem's command sequence
Let telnet-mode for softmodems be set via the conf-file
(and more)


### Add an option for setting monochrome palette colour

Mention, that it was backported to 0.75.2 already?


### Properly set modify time on written files

```
    Properly set modify time on written files

    Implements the missing part of DOS function 57h which sets modify time
    on a file. Previously, it was a stub.
    "copy" command now copies over file modify time as well.

    This should fix some install programs which check file modify dates.

    Code taken from this patch ripped from ykhwong's fork by gulikoza:
    https://www.vogons.org/viewtopic.php?t=22600
```

### Raw mouse input

Mention, that it was backported to 0.75.2 already?

7bb013a021b0f376df169478bf81c1702bbafb6a


### Raw mouse input

Add dosbox --help -h command option.

Perhaps merge with mount/imgmount help?


### Case-insensitive paths handling

For mount, imgmount commands.

```
commit 1f03e0fec9c0e0a4b614c1990f5bec1612c4ebda
Author: Patryk Obara <dreamer.tan@gmail.com>
Date:   Sat Oct 17 19:59:04 2020 +0200

    Treat imgmount input path as case-insensitive
    
    Add more logs, so it should be easier for users to figure out what is
    happening when the imgmount command can't find the file.
    
    This change is required to make the .conf files cross-platform. It's
    usual practice for DOS packagers and distributors to write imgmount
    commands expecting case-insensitive filesystem and Windows path
    separators.
    
    DOSBox already does various path conversions to accomodate e.g. switching
    directory separators or even checks if path can't be loaded as
    case-insensitive when relative to virtual DOS drive.
```


### Revise default keyboard shortcuts

TODO describe for non-technical users

- **Alt-Enter** - Switch between fullscreen and window mode.
- **Alt-Pause** - Pause/Unpause emulator.
- **Ctrl-F1** - Start the keymapper.
- **Ctrl-F4** - Change between mounted floppy/CD images.
- **Ctrl-F5** - Save a screenshot.
- **Ctrl-F6** - Start/Stop recording sound output to a wave file.
- **Ctrl-F7** - Start/Stop recording video output to a zmbv file.
- **Ctrl-F9** - Shutdown emulator.
- **Ctrl-F10** - Capture/Release the mouse.
- **Ctrl-F11** - Slow down emulation.
- **Ctrl-F12** - Speed up emulation.
- **Ctrl-Alt-Home** - Restart emulator.
- hold **Alt-F12** - Fast forward.

Keymapper received tiny usabity improvements as well: it displays
keyboard shortcut (binding) for selected action.


## 3. Bugfixes

TODO only notable ones

- Prevent SDL2 crash on exit when using Wayland - 4ae5528a62bae5d16c449b22913ce21d02529129
- Fix sound in Prince of Persia / Tandy - 16873712e5e56bbe74557df4b65f8789d67fa296
- Prevent crash on SDL2 re-creating OpenGL window - e50fc3135ffe959f67537e1fdecee27010df2fb9
- Fix dir/p in non-standard text modes - 1fd67a335722b3a08487df9edfff59a9de5422d4
- Prevent injection of spurious newlines - c8b51ed9de04e8f1e63fe95f2814a79f62a78e93
- Fix mouse middlegame setting - 66e56da8df6fe64f8fa5d57afd6a7d2a224e84ca
- Fix a CD-DA roll-over bug when calculating PCM frames - 9b3e6cdde8f52c862cc8d57c8c811dc5bb935ed0
- Fix boot failure from Drive C - 06f2b2ba9e38796b28f6fc8dad6ea4184e2a7d9c
- Fix memory leak on modem phone book shutdown - b51327d75011df0f5119ee687ee39e209dd6b2a9
- Fix CLS command - d41a2129bb6334de4f32cb5b3ae2497bc324d984
- Fix regression in Clue: Master Detective - 8c0021ab2a0ae56a413e12816c0cb8a472f36cd0
- Update the default number of open DOS file handles to 255 - 476eae50022f65b87d7b12b04191e0ac1e22c149
- Set Precision Exception in FRNDINT, so that the Borland pascal pow implementation works correctly with non-integer arguments - 7892be26c72f812c0f58d17524516370fbde9bd6
- Bundle VS C++ Runtime File in Windows package - d7abe4d27c8aa73a9a54a1ce09555a2efd41e9b4
- Identify Pentium CPUID to indicate CPU without FDIV bug - 4764bb9eb1e36abbd36407655e1531854bf42a0c

- Multiple fixes for demoscene productions (look through commits by ripsaw)


## 4. Removed features

- `[gus]` `gusrate` - removed, not needed
- `oplrate` - removed - 5ff2386b32d50930dfdecc649261e44ecab0ea2b


## 5. Notes for Packagers

TODO: Notify about FluidSynth dependency, and any other packaging related
changes.


## 6. Notes for Developers

TODO describe briefly:

- Introduce CI gating based on MSVC, 32-bit and 64-bit builds
- Switch to using C++14
- Remove MSYS2 from gating


## 7. Changes merged from upstream projects

TODO

- Sync dr_mp3 v0.6.11 from upstream
- Sync dr_flac v0.12.13 from upstream
- Sync dr_wav v0.12.4 from upstream
- Sync xxhash 0.8.0 from upsteam
- Sync stb header v2.36 from upstream
- Sync stb_vorbis v1.19 from upstream


TODO New features in SVN (how to describe these?)

- Add F8 to toggle printable characters on/off - debugger only - 0d3d7851a4f0dc3aa0f440282d470e4bc2b8a938


## 8. Contributors

**Maintainers:**

**Contributors:**
