+++
title = "0.75.2 Maintenance Release Notes"
date = 2020-10-25
+++

Installation instructions:

- [Linux](/downloads/linux/) (or [Steam on Linux](/downloads/linux#steam))
- [Windows](/downloads/windows/)
- [macOS](/downloads/macos/)

## Table of Contents

- [1. Summary](#1-summary)
- [2. New Features in Detail](#2-new-features-in-detail)
  - [2.1. Select Monochrome Palette Colour](#2-1-select-monochrome-palette-colour)
  - [2.2. Raw Mouse Input](#2-2-raw-mouse-input)
- [3. Bugfixes](#3-bugfixes)
- [4. Notes for Packagers](#4-notes-for-packagers)
- [5. Contributors](#4-contributors)
- [6. Changelog](#5-changelog)

## 1. Summary

This is a maintenance release from 0.75.x stable branch - it includes a few
changes and bugfixes backported from upcoming 0.76.x version.

## 2. New Features in Detail

### 2.1. Select Monochrome Palette Colour

To be used with `machine = hercules` or `machine = cga_mono`. Users can
now change the default monochrome palette colour (white, paperwhite, green,
or amber) in a configuration file:

```
[render]
monochrome_palette = amber
```

See: [#607](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/607)


### 2.2. Raw Mouse Input

User can enable this setting to bypass operating system's mouse
acceleration and sensitivity settings. This works in
fullscreen or when the mouse is captured in window mode.

Option can be changed in the sdl section of a configuration file:

```
[sdl]
raw_mouse_input = true
```

This option is disabled by default, but some games (e.g. FPS titles,
like DOOM or Dark Forces) will work better with raw input enabled
(especially when used with modern, very sensitive gaming mouses).

See: [#636](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/636)


## 3. Bugfixes

- Bundle C++ Runtime libraries with Windows builds for users
  on Windows 7, 8.x, and those who disabled Windows 10 update mechanism.
  ([#675](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/675))
- Reimplement CLS command to prevent text mode reset.
  ([#639](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/639))
- Fix whitespace handling in modem ATD command.
  ([#652](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/652))
- Fix boot failure when using HDD image.
  ([#522](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/pull/522))


## 4. Notes for Packagers

This release includes numerous fixes affecting our build system and other
changes relevant for packaging (contributed by Gentoo packagers, and people
preparing Debian, Fedora, and Flatpak packages) - prompt upgrade is recommended.

If you're packaging DOSBox Staging for your OS, we have few tips:

- We strongly suggest to keep our default binary name: `dosbox`.
  DOSBox&nbsp;Staging is a drop-in replacement for older DOSBox versions - there
  are programs depending on `dosbox` binary name (e.g. Wine or GUI frontends).
  It's also the default name of our man page and appears in the documentation.
- You don't need to generate your own desktop entry, appstream metadata
  (metainfo.xml), nor package description - relevant files are in
  `contrib/linux/` directory.
- We provide icon in scalable format and icons optimized for small sizes -
  look into `contrib/icons/` directory.
- During the configuration step, remember to add <code>-D[NDEBUG](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c/error/assert)</code>
  to preprocessor flags (it's important!), and we recommend using `-O3` in both
  C and C++ compiler flags, for example:

      ./configure CPPFLAGS="-DNDEBUG" CFLAGS="-O3" CXXFLAGS="-O3"

- Our testing indicates, that GCC generates faster binaries than Clang, but
  use whatever compiler is more appropriate for your OS.
- The license is "GNU GPL version 2.0 **or later**" (SPDX: `GPL-2.0-or-later`).
  GitHub does not show "or later", but our packages should show the proper
  license info.

To all our package maintainers: Thank you! :)


## 5. Contributors

**Maintainers:**

Patryk Obara, kcgen

**Contributors:**

- Bernard Cafarelli
- David Heidelberg
- Feignint
- NicknineTheEagle
- WengierWu

## 6. Changelog

You can read detailed changelog via Git, e.g. using the following command:

``` shell
git shortlog ^v0.75.1 v0.75.2
```
