+++
title = "0.77.1 Maintenance Release Notes"
date = 2021-08-14
+++

**How to upgrade from any version:**

Download and launch the latest version:

- [Linux](/downloads/linux/) (or [Steam on Linux](/downloads/linux#steam))
- [Windows](/downloads/windows/)
- [macOS](/downloads/macos/)

At the DOSBox `C:\>` prompt, run: `config -wc` to upgrade your config file.
Your existing settings will be retained however extraneous comments will be dropped.

## Bugfixes

The following user-visible bugs were fixed in 0.77.1 (reported-by/fixed-by):

- Fix crash when using 32-bit build and the dynamic-core on Windows 10 (Banjo-Oz/kklobe).
- Fix degraded joystick control during once-a-month integer time-rollover event (cimarronm).
- Fix inability launch locally provided HELP and CHOICE executables, as these internal commands previously took precedence (SmilingSpectre/Wenginer).
- Fix inability to map joystick events when joysticktype was configured as 'none' (GranMiniGun/kcgen).
- Fix incorrect setup of joystick when type configured as '2axis' (choum/kcgen).
- Fix input control lag on some Windows systems and on macOS when the 'Magnet' GUI management program is running (Burrito78/kcgen).
- Fix mouse control in "Alive - Behind the Moon". Imported from DOSBox SVN r4461: Thank you ripsaw8080.
- Fix performance regression when building releases on arm-based Linux SBC (mrfixit2001).
- Fix potential Tseng ET3000 video mode corruption. Imported from DOSBox SVN r4460: Thank you ripsaw8080.
- Fix potential crash when quickly Alt+Tab'ing on Windows (kklobe).
- Fix size and placement of video content when using a resizeable window mode (bmunger/kcgen).

**Thank You**

We are extremely grateful for all contributions, including the invaluable improvements merged in from The DOSBox Team and The DOSBox-X Team.

DOSBox Staging maintains original authorship on all commits to ensure attribution is recorded in the version control system (git).
