content/about/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Vision"
template = "about.html"
date = 2022-03-26
+++

**DOSBox Staging** is an attempt to revitalize DOSBox's development process
by applying modern development practices to the existing DOSBox codebase.

## Goals

- Improve the **out-of-the-box** experience for new users.
- Encourage **new contributors** by removing barriers to entry.
- Implement **new features** and quality-of-life improvements.
- Fix, cleanup, and integrate notable **community-developed patches** that
  fill valuable general-purpose and/or gaming-focused emulation holes
  (provided they don't impact broader compatibility, performance, stability,
  or code maintainability).
- Prioritize the **quality** of newly written code to minimize technical
  debt and ease future maintenance, which generally means
  following the [Staging Coding Style Guide](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#coding-style)
  and being aware of best practices, like the [C++ Core Guidelines](http://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines).
- Deliver a consistent cross-platform experience.
- Leverage upstream and community developments in DOSBox.
- Focus on supporting up-to-date, current Operating Systems and modern
 hardware.

A summary of technical and feature differences is
[here](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging#summary-of-differences-compared-to-upstream).

We plan to add the features listed in
[the backlog](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/projects/3).

## Non-goals

- Supporting old operating systems (Windows 9x/Me, OS/2, and Mac OS X 10.4)
  and limited CPU/memory hardware, which are constraints [DOSBox](https://www.dosbox.com/)
  continues to support.

- Supporting the use of Windows 9x/Me in the emulator. Windows 9x/Me emulation
  is supported by projects such as [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/),
  although DOSBox forks like [DOSBox-X](https://www.dosbox-x.com/) and [DOSBox Pure](https://github.com/schellingb/dosbox-pure) 
  also support this. This may change if wanted by the DOSBox Staging community in general.

- Persuing hardware accuracy when it impacts the above goals or detracts
  from the source material. [PCem](https://pcem-emulator.co.uk/) and its derivatives
  like [86Box](https://86box.net) and [PCBox](https://pcbox.github.io/) are examples of cycle-accurate emulators.

- Being the fastest DOS emulator on x86 hardware. Linux users interested in
  emulation speed should look at [dosemu2](https://github.com/dosemu2/dosemu2).

- Acting as a general-purpose DOS operating system. For that, there is
  [FreeDOS](https://www.freedos.org/).

## Relationship to DOSBox

**DOSBox Staging** is separate from and not supported by the SourceForge-hosted
[DOSBox](https://www.dosbox.com/) project or its development team, the DOSBox
Team.

We acknowledge and are thankful for the work shared by all DOSBox
contributors.

## Team

This project is maintained by the
[DOSBox Staging team](https://github.com/orgs/dosbox-staging/people).

Commit message:

Mention a possible solution for accuracy purposes

content/about/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Vision"
template = "about.html"
date = 2022-03-26
+++

**DOSBox Staging** is an attempt to revitalize DOSBox's development process
by applying modern development practices to the existing DOSBox codebase.

## Goals

- Improve the **out-of-the-box** experience for new users.
- Encourage **new contributors** by removing barriers to entry.
- Implement **new features** and quality-of-life improvements.
- Fix, cleanup, and integrate notable **community-developed patches** that
  fill valuable general-purpose and/or gaming-focused emulation holes
  (provided they don't impact broader compatibility, performance, stability,
  or code maintainability).
- Prioritize the **quality** of newly written code to minimize technical
  debt and ease future maintenance, which generally means
  following the [Staging Coding Style Guide](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#coding-style)
  and being aware of best practices, like the [C++ Core Guidelines](http://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines).
- Deliver a consistent cross-platform experience.
- Leverage upstream and community developments in DOSBox.
- Focus on supporting up-to-date, current Operating Systems and modern
 hardware.

A summary of technical and feature differences is
[here](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging#summary-of-differences-compared-to-upstream).

We plan to add the features listed in
[the backlog](https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/projects/3).

## Non-goals

- Supporting old operating systems (Windows 9x/Me, OS/2, and Mac OS X 10.4)
  and limited CPU/memory hardware, which are constraints [DOSBox](https://www.dosbox.com/)
  continues to support.

- Supporting the use of Windows 9x/Me in the emulator. Windows 9x/Me emulation
  is supported by projects such as [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/),
  although DOSBox forks like [DOSBox-X](https://www.dosbox-x.com/) and [DOSBox Pure](https://github.com/schellingb/dosbox-pure) 
  also support this. This may change if wanted by the DOSBox Staging community in general.

- Persuing hardware accuracy when it impacts the above goals or detracts
  from the source material, although config options may be added in case of issues.
  If you need perfect emulation in terms of accuracy you may look at [PCem](https://pcem-emulator.co.uk/) and its derivatives
  like [86Box](https://86box.net) and [PCBox](https://pcbox.github.io/), which are examples of cycle-accurate emulators.

- Being the fastest DOS emulator on x86 hardware. Linux users interested in
  emulation speed should look at [dosemu2](https://github.com/dosemu2/dosemu2).

- Acting as a general-purpose DOS operating system. For that, there is
  [FreeDOS](https://www.freedos.org/).

## Relationship to DOSBox

**DOSBox Staging** is separate from and not supported by the SourceForge-hosted
[DOSBox](https://www.dosbox.com/) project or its development team, the DOSBox
Team.

We acknowledge and are thankful for the work shared by all DOSBox
contributors.

## Team

This project is maintained by the
[DOSBox Staging team](https://github.com/orgs/dosbox-staging/people).
