content/downloads/windows/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Windows downloads"
template = "download.html"
+++

**[Download dosbox-staging 0.75.0 (zip)][zip]** TODO
<br/>
<span style="font-size:0.7em">
sha256: TODO
</span>

*If Windows 8.x or Windows 10 prevents you from running dosbox-staging via
Microsoft Defender SmartScreen, see the [section below](#ms-ss).*

[zip]: https://TODO


### Development snapshot builds

You can always see what's cooking on the master branch :)

These builds might be slow or unstable as they are designed with developers
and testers in mind: [download instructions for snapshot builds](
https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging#development-snapshot-builds).

### <a name="old-builds" href="#old-builds">§</a> Older builds

* **[dosbox-staging 0.75.0-rc1 (zip)][0_75_0_rc1]**
<br/>
<span style="font-size:0.7em">
sha256: 738d2ae2101384f2eeaf1895de64cf1b4c76eaf7873de7e15b7f52145dfed7e7
</span>

[0_75_0_rc1]: https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/releases/download/v0.75.0-rc1/dosbox-staging-windows-v0.75.0-rc1.zip


### <a name="ms-ss"></a> Microsoft Defender SmartScreen

Starting in Windows 8, Microsoft's SmartScreen pop-up encumbers the execution
of newly-developed applications.  To prevent this, developers are expected to pay
Microsoft's EV certification vendors a yearly fee and put the software on Windows
Store<sup>[1]</sup>.

As dosbox-staging is a volunteer effort, we are not in a position to make such
payments. We therefore ask users to manually unblock dosbox-staging and be
patient while Microsoft's "Application Reputation" scheme eventually whitelists
dosbox-staging (see: [[2]], and the last paragraph in [[3]]).

If you're concerned about downloading pre-compiled binaries, you can [build
dosbox-staging yourself straight from the source][4]. Send us patches if you
improve something! :)

For now, you can bypass SmartScreen using methods 1, 2, or 3 below:

[1]:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/archive/blogs/ie/microsoft-smartscreen-extended-validation-ev-code-signing-certificates#-windows-store--windows-8-apps
[2]:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-smartscreen/windows-defender-smartscreen-overview
[3]:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/archive/blogs/ie/microsoft-smartscreen-extended-validation-ev-code-signing-certificates#-ev-code-signing
[4]:https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging

#### Method 1

Use Linux instead. [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop) is an excellent
choice for new users.

#### Method 2

SmartScreen will allow you to run application, after you click
on "More info":

![SmartScreen window 1](smartscreen1.png)
![SmartScreen window 2](smartscreen2.png)

#### Method 3

Right-click on "dosbox.exe" file distributed in the zip file, select
"Properties", and then "Unblock".

![Properties window](properties.png)

Commit message:

Simplify download pages
Screenshots pushed up, explanations about Apple and Microsoft being bad
pushed down. This should make it easier for users to get to the
important part (instructions how to bypass mechanisms).

content/downloads/windows/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Windows downloads"
template = "download.html"
+++

**[Download dosbox-staging 0.75.0 (zip)][zip]** TODO
<br/>
<span style="font-size:0.7em">
sha256: TODO
</span>

*If Windows 8.x or Windows 10 prevents you from running dosbox-staging via
Microsoft Defender SmartScreen, see the [section below](#ms-ss).*

[zip]: https://TODO


### Development snapshot builds

You can always see what's cooking on the master branch :)

These builds might be slow or unstable as they are designed with developers
and testers in mind: [download instructions for snapshot builds](
https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging#development-snapshot-builds).

### <a name="old-builds" href="#old-builds">§</a> Older builds

* **[dosbox-staging 0.75.0-rc1 (zip)][0_75_0_rc1]**
<br/>
<span style="font-size:0.7em">
sha256: 738d2ae2101384f2eeaf1895de64cf1b4c76eaf7873de7e15b7f52145dfed7e7
</span>

[0_75_0_rc1]: https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging/releases/download/v0.75.0-rc1/dosbox-staging-windows-v0.75.0-rc1.zip


### <a name="ms-ss" href="#ms-ss">§</a> Microsoft Defender SmartScreen

#### Method 1

SmartScreen will allow you to run application, after you click
on "More info":

![SmartScreen window 1](smartscreen1.png)
![SmartScreen window 2](smartscreen2.png)


#### Method 2

Right-click on "dosbox.exe" file distributed in the zip file, select
"Properties", and then "Unblock".

![Properties window](properties.png)


#### Explanation

Starting in Windows 8, Microsoft's SmartScreen pop-up encumbers the execution
of newly-developed applications.  To prevent this, developers are expected to pay
Microsoft's EV certification vendors a yearly fee and put the software on Windows
Store<sup>[1]</sup>.

As dosbox-staging is a volunteer effort, we are not in a position to make such
payments. We therefore ask users to manually unblock dosbox-staging and be
patient while Microsoft's "Application Reputation" scheme eventually whitelists
dosbox-staging (see: [[2]], and the last paragraph in [[3]]).

[1]:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/archive/blogs/ie/microsoft-smartscreen-extended-validation-ev-code-signing-certificates#-windows-store--windows-8-apps
[2]:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-smartscreen/windows-defender-smartscreen-overview
[3]:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/archive/blogs/ie/microsoft-smartscreen-extended-validation-ev-code-signing-certificates#-ev-code-signing
[4]:https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging


### Building from source

Of course you can always [build dosbox-staging straight from the source][1].
Send us patches if you improve something! :)

[1]:https://github.com/dosbox-staging/dosbox-staging
